[MUSIC]
>> Jafar: So how can we take this and
turn it into an observable, so that
instead of when we call search Wikipedia
and immediately make new network requests,
we want it to return an observable to us,
which will on next us this array and
then complete and then tell us it's done.
So an observable of one, in other words.
So, we're going to show you
how to create an observable,
just gonna keep running
files come into those.
So whenever you wanna take an existing
API and adapt it into an observable,
we're gonna call this
getWikipediaSearchResults.
Remember that an observable is an object
with only one method, the forEach method.
Right, and there's a helper function,
which will return an observable.
Actually, I'm gonna write it the long way,
and then we're gonna convert it
into the way that we saw before.
So I'm gonna have
a forEach method in here.
And remember that that forEach
method accepts an observer,
which is three methods, on next,
on error, and on completed.
That's the observer, that's the thing
that we're sending information to.
So in here, I'm actually gonna make
this call to get JSON, the jQuery API.
>> Jafar: And inside of this code,
instead of a learning, all I'm gonna do is
send this information, in this case, I'm
actually gonna just pull out data at one,
which is the array of search results,
to the observer.
Now at this point, we know we're never
gonna call the observer ever again.
Right, cuz the way jQuery API works,
the JSON API just goes to the server,
gets one thing, and then it finishes.
So we wanna tell the consumer, hey,
look, we're never gonna call you again.
And so we just tell them onCompleted, and
that's how we create an observable
with only one element in it.
Now remember that we also have
to return something else.
Can anybody tell me what it is,
when I forEach over an observable
what has to be returned?
>> Speaker 2: A dispose.
>> Jafar: A subscription object
with a dispose method on it, right?
Because if I forEach over this observable,
and half like a second later,
maybe the network request taking
a really long time, and I decide,
I don't want that network request results.
I need some way of cancelling that.
So we're gonna return an object
with a dispose method.
And in here, we have to sort of somehow
cancel the request if possible.
Now the interesting thing about this is
that it's not really possible to cancel
this request, and you're gonna
come across this all the time.
Most synchronous APIs don't have one of
these four semantics that observable has.
The ability to deliver a value,
the ability to deliver an error,
the ability to say onCompleted, and
the ability for the consumer to say,
I don't want anymore data, those
are the four semantics of an observable.
But most asynchronous APIs only
have maybe two or three or one.
And so jQuery API, the JSONP API
is an example of where, well,
they don't really have
the notion of cancel.
If you think about what's happening under
the hood, it's actually adding a script
tag with a source that points to that URL,
and then that code is gonna get run,
it's gonna get call our callback,
whether we want the data or not.
And so sometimes when the underlying
asynchronous API doesn't support
the semantics of the observable,
you have to fake it.
So, in this case, we just wanna make sure
that if somebody calls dispose on our
subscription, we never call them.
And so that means we need to remember
that somebody's called dispose.
So, I'm gonna create a cancelled boolean,
I'm gonna set it to false.
And then inside of dispose,
I'm gonna set canceled to true.
Now inside of my callback,
I'm gonna set an if condition that says,
if not cancelled.
So while I can't cancel the underlying
requests, and you'll run across this all
the time where async APIs don't
provide you this flexibility.
At the very least, you can avoid,
you can satisfy the observable contract
by making sure that if somebody dispose
of a subscription, we don't call them.
Now, if we were using an XHR instead of
a JSONP, we could actually call XHR abort,
and we should probably do that instead,
so that we cancel that network request.
Does that make sense?
So now we've got an API that'll
give us an observable if we ask for
it, an observable that triggers
a network request, and
we've got an observable stream
of all the key presses.
So let's see if we can build something
like it out of complete box.
So but now that I've written
it this out the long way,
I wanna show you that the real correct
way of doing this is that observable has
a helper function called create.
And because we know that
an observable is only one for
each method, we can just shorten it.
So Observable.create just takes
the definition of forEach.
>> Jafar: So
we don't need to create that object.
>> Jafar: And the same thing here,
instead of the same ceremony of always
creating an object with a dispose method,
we'll just return the function
that we used to dispose.
And that just allows you to
write less code, cuz that
part's always gonna be the same, every
single time you create an observable.
So now we've got, hopefully, something
we can call get WikipediaSearchResults.
>> Jafar: And let's pass in Terminator.
>> Jafar: So if I run this,
what would we expect to happen right now?
>> Speaker 3: Nothing,
it's just returning an observable, and
you're not even storing it in a variable.
>> Jafar: Right,
just creating an observable does
nothing because observables are lazy.
We've got a forEach over this
observable in order to call that for
each method write up here and
cause it to do something.
So let's call forEach, and
that's passing a function,
>> Jafar: And let's alert them.
>> Jafar: So if we run this,
>> Jafar: Great, so
now we've done the same thing,
except now we have an observable API.
So now we get to do the fun stuff,
which is compose these things together
using map, filter, concatAll, etc.